Add test plan for QUARKUS-190: Vertx - sql (#8)
quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-plans: QUARKUS-167.md

# Quarkus-190 - Testing and verifying Quarkus/Vertx SQL

The goal of this test plan is to cover the main points of conflicts between Quarkus/Vertx and SQL databases. 

JIRA link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-190 

## Scope of the testing
Following actions were taken to ensure test coverage and automation for vertx/sql applications:
 - Setup databases and load initial data through Flyway

>  - Programmatically insert statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Programmatic insert statements
```

 - Select statements
 - Transactional statements between several tables

>  - Supported databases: postgresql, mysql/mariaDB, DB2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Tested databases: PostgreSQL, MariaDB, optionally MySQL and DB2
```

### Impact on testsuites and testing automation:
 - Ensure this coverage works both in JVM and NATIVE mode

>  - Integration test it's cover by Beefy-scenarios testsuite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Integration tests covered by beefy-scenarios testsuite
```

>  - Some Openshift integration tests as Db2 are pending. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - OpenShift integration tests with PosgreSQL
```

Reviewer: Expecting reactive clients to be used and PG is the only supported one, the rest i mainly TP.
On traditional JDBC side we do not support DB2 drivers

> ### Impact on resources:

Reviewer: MySQL / PostgreSQL / DB2

Reviewer: The intention of this comment was to change
```
 - mysql (183.6 MiB - 343.5 MiB)
 - postgresql (9.9 MiB)
 - db2 (115.7Mb)
```
to
```
 - MySQL (183.6 MiB - 343.5 MiB)
 - PostgreSQL (9.9 MiB)
 - DB2 (115.7Mb)
 ```

Why does MySQL have such diff (183.6 MiB - 343.5 MiB) in sizes? I assume it's about image size.
10 MiB for PostgreSQL is suspicious

 - mysql (183.6 MiB - 343.5 MiB)
 - postgresql (9.9 MiB)
 - db2 (115.7Mb)

>  The main impact of resources it's in time. Deploy DB2 from scratch takes around 5 min.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The main impact on resources is in time. Deploy DB2 from scratch takes around 5 min.  
```

## Getting familiar with the feature
Following actions were taken to ensure familiarity:
 - Focus on exploratory testing of the features

## Automated test development

> - [Quarkus/vertx - sql scenario](https://github.com/quarkus-qe/beefy-scenarios/pull/71): We have created a flight search engine in order to test Quarkus Reactive SQL extensions. So, in this hypothetical scenario, you could have a website that allows your customer to compare flight prices of different airlines based on some business rules. Finally, an end-user could create a basket with their flight selection and post this basket in a transactional way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Quarkus/vertx - sql scenario](https://github.com/quarkus-qe/beefy-scenarios/pull/71): A flight search engine in order to test Quarkus Reactive SQL extensions. End user-facing website allows customers to compare flight prices of different airlines based on various business rules. The end phase is to book the flight in a transactional way.
```
